Hey guys welcome back.
So our last lecture covered one tactic for getting attention to reporters and that was what I called
the core a poll and now I want to tell you about another way to grab a reporter.
But in a nice way and not an aggressive restraining order kind of grabbing way.
Here's Johnny.
Remember all we said back in one of our first lectures that day in the life of a reporter lecturer at
one of the things reporters are always doing is research
that along with all the other stuff they do just fills up their day leaves them less time to answer
your pitch emails.
Well one if you could do some of that valuable research for them.
No that doesn't mean you're becoming there in turn or indentured servant.
This means you're going to do them a favor and if it's helpful maybe you can help them out in return.
And if they can't help you on return them at very least you learn some stuff about your industry or
your customers and you're still on their radar.
Not a bad deal right.
So this next we're going to ask us how you can use your own influence and other resources to conduct
polls or surveys on a topic that's relevant to a reporter on your list.
Now I do have to give partial credit to a part of this to Demitri it just reach out.
He has his own variation of how to do this but he kind of pioneered part of the polling method that
we'll talk about.
The first step with this tactic is to figure out what you want to share with the reporter you already
have some interesting data.
Great but usually you'll need to collect some data and that's really not so tough.
You can create a survey and get people to answer it.
Now there are a lot of free tools out there for surveys like Survey Monkey google forms that allow you
to create surveys about really whatever you want.
And then you can use e-mail or social channels to share a link to the survey and get results.
If you're willing to spend a couple bucks on it then you can run Facebook ads which are really really
easy to set up takes 20 minutes set one up design it and then get responses.
You can also do Google ads for responses you can actually do a Google survey ads which is something
they do now they insert ads randomly into pages but you only ask a couple of questions.
So that's another thing you can consider.
You can also do things like Mechanical Turk if you get a Mechanical Turk.
It's just a Web site where tons and tons of people are anonymous and do really really small task for
varying degrees of money so oftentimes the news post and say fill this survey out.
You meet these certain criteria and requirements and that's a really good way to easily fill these out.
The point here is that you don't really need to get a thousand people to answer it.
You get 20 or 50 depending on what it is that's really all you need.
Right.
You can get 50 people to answer a question about a new iPhone feature and then you can say to the reporter
is 82 percent or 85 percent of this survey said they hated that feature.
So let's say you've created a medical app to help trainers and coaches evaluate student athletes who
might have let's say on a concussion to play sports like football hockey or volleyball.
Well there are times when athletes collide or hit the ground hard and well if they have concussion it's
pretty important they sit down and get evaluated.
Now using a mobile app that steps trainers there a process to evaluate the athlete can be helpful ballgame
still going on.
Right now you've got some customers and you've got an active mailing list of people who want to know
more about what you're doing.
OK great.
Well it'd be great to get some coverage about your app from some sports medicine or reporters you have
on your list right.
So do a survey or a poll reach out to your customers and ask them to share some numbers about how often
they use the app how often athletes test positive for concussions and how the app was used.
In addition to the answers your questions you might also ask qualitative responses in other words stories
and feedback from respondents who can share specific details.
Beyond these questions for example one high school trainer might get back to you with a survey answer
and a good story about a soccer player who wanted to stay in the game after a collision and appeared
fine.
It failed the concussion test on the app so he was kept out of the game and upon further medical review
he indeed had a concussion.
Now these specific stories are pieces of data that could be valuable research for a reporter.
They can use them as reference to tell their story or they can use the quantitative data you have to
say hey guess what.
I surveyed my customers and I got this percentage of people saying this is what they thought about something.
So once you have all this data share now you've got something specific to offer them.
Include details about this as part of your pitch email which we'll talk about in the next few lectures
or just use that as a way to get their attention.
There you tweet at them.
You send him an e-mail saying hey I know you're writing about this or hey I saw an article about this.
Here's something that I think would help contribute if it helps to get a response in coverage from a
reporter.
Fantastic.
If not then at the very least you've collected some good feedback with your product and you have more
information on how people use it.
Maybe even a better way to make it better.
Either way you don't really risk a lot with this one.
I mean worst case scenario is it's been an hour setting it up sending it out and then collecting it.
And if you had to do ads and you spent 30 bucks.
All right this makes sense if you're thinking about what kind of data to collect for reporters on your
radar.
Make sure you go back and forth and look at the articles they've written are there spots where they've
cited data from sources.
If you can wrap an idea of your own around the data you've collected they might be interested in what
you have to offer.
This is especially true if you're a company that has its own customers you have your own followers your
own e-mail list.
Well if you're in this space the information you can gather is incredibly valuable.
Same thing with like stats you can pull from your product itself.
These are things that you should know really helpful for a reporter who's not an expert in your space
as well as you are.
All right guys that's it for now.
This is a tactic you can do very easily.
It's a great way to wedge yourself into the radar.
I to see in the next lecture.